How-to Connections Guide (#2554)
astronomer/docs: learn/connections-azure-storage-account.md

---

> title: "Creating an Azure Storage Account connection"

Author: Azure storage account can be of multiple types, blob or file or queues etc. https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-overview. Although most commonly used is Blob storage. We can do blob storage for now for simplicity and tackle the multiple uses later on.

id: azure-storage-account
sidebar_label: Azure Storage Account
description: Learn how to create an Azure Storage Account connection.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> [Azure Storage Account](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-overview) provides the storage for all of your Azure Storage data objects - blobs, files, queues, tables. Integrating Azure storage with Airflow will allow users to perform different kind of operations on data objects stored in the cloud. For example, users can create or delete a container, upload or read a file, download blobs etc.

Author: @jwitz why "container" was changed to "containers" and "file" was kept as "a file" ?

:::info

Astronomer recommends to use **Azure Blob Storage** Connection Type which uses `wasb` protocol. This can be used with any Azure Storage Account including Azure Data Lake Gen 1 and Azure Data Lake Gen 2.

:::

## Prerequisites
- The [Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/overview).
- A locally running [Astro project](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/cli/get-started-cli).
- An [Azure Storage Account](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts) which is accessible from your local Airflow environment.

## Get connection details

To create an Azure storage connection in Airflow, you can use either of the following methods:

<Tabs
    defaultValue="shared-access-key"

>     groupId= "azure-connection"

Author: @jwitz not sure why are we changing this ? Shouldn't we be using the same groupId for the tabs of get-connection-details and create your connection to let them sync. I have tested it and it works.

    values={[
        {label: 'Shared access key', value: 'shared-access-key'},
        {label: 'Connection string', value: 'connection-string'},
        {label: 'SAS token', value: 'sas-token'},
        {label: 'Azure app service principal', value: 'azure-app-service-principal'},
    ]}>

<TabItem value="shared-access-key">

Microsoft generates two [Shared access keys](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-keys-manage?tabs=azure-portal) by default for every storage account. They can be used to authorize access to the data in your storage account. 

An Azure blob storage connection using shared access key requires the following information:

- Name of the storage account
- Shared access key

In you Azure portal, follow the below instructions to get your shared access key:

> 1. Go to your [Storage account](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts) view and select your subscription. 

Author: I find it rather helpful! when as a user I have to follow some steps, I want to perform those actions and not read about them. for reading we have given link to the docs .

2. Copy the name of your storage account.

> 3. Follow the [Microsoft documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-keys-manage?tabs=azure-portal#view-account-access-keys) until step #4 to get the shared access key.

Author: this change doesn't make sense. so changing it; I believe you just wanted to remove the "until step #4" part ?

In your Azure portal, follow the below instructions to retrieve these values:

1. Go to your [Storage account](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts) view and select your subscription. 
2. Copy the name of your storage account.
3. Follow the [Microsoft documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cognitive-services/translator/document-translation/how-to-guides/create-sas-tokens?tabs=Containers#create-sas-tokens-in-the-azure-portal) to generate your SAS token.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="azure-app-service-principal">

A [service principal for an azure app](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-sas-overview) provides granular access for a storage account. 

An Azure blob storage connection using a service principal requires the following information:

- Storage account URL
- Application Client ID
- Tenant ID
- Client secret

In your Azure portal, follow the below steps to retrieve all of these values:

1. Go to your [Storage account](https://portal.azure.com/#view/HubsExtension/BrowseResource/resourceType/Microsoft.Storage%2FStorageAccounts) view and select your subscription. 

> 2. Go to the **Settings** in the left pane, and click on **Endpoints**. Copy the Blob Service URL. It looks like `https://mystorageaccount.blob.core.windows.net/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Settings** in the left menu, then click **Endpoints**. Copy the **Blob Service URL**. It should be in the format `https://mystorageaccount.blob.core.windows.net/`.
```

> 3. Go to your [Azure AD application](https://portal.azure.com/#view/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade). Then, from the **Overview** tab, copy the **Application (client) ID** and **Directory (tenant) ID**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open your [Azure AD application](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/manage-apps/overview-application-gallery). Then, from the **Overview** tab, copy the **Application (client) ID** and **Directory (tenant) ID**.
```

> 4. Follow the Azure documentation to [create a new client secret](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-3-create-a-new-application-secret) for your application to be used in Airflow connection. Copy the **VALUE** of the client secret displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Follow the Azure documentation to [create a new client secret](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-3-create-a-new-application-secret) for your application to be used in Airflow connection. Copy the **VALUE** of the client secret.
```

> 5. Follow the Azure documentation to [assign](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#assign-a-role-to-the-application) the [Storage Blob Data Contributor](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#storage-blob-data-contributor) role to your app in order to manage objects in your storage account from Airflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Follow the Azure documentation to [assign](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#assign-a-role-to-the-application) the [Storage Blob Data Contributor](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles#storage-blob-data-contributor) so that Airflow can access objects in your storage account.
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Create your connection

> To create an Azure blob storage connection, you can use any of the following methods to integrate Azure storage account with Airflow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure your Airflow connection based on the information you retrieved in the previous step. 
```

<Tabs
    defaultValue="shared-access-key"
    groupId= "azure-connection"
    values={[
        {label: 'Shared access key', value: 'shared-access-key'},
        {label: 'Connection string', value: 'connection-string'},
        {label: 'SAS token', value: 'sas-token'},
        {label: 'Azure app service principal', value: 'azure-app-service-principal'},
    ]}>

<TabItem value="shared-access-key">

> 
> To create a connection, follow the below steps:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> 1. Add the following line to your Astro project's `requirement.txt` file to install and use the package for Microsoft Azure in Airflow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following line to your Astro project `requirements.txt` file to install and use the provider package for Microsoft Azure in Airflow:
```

Author: @jwitz I believe you removed the apostrophe after project by mistake, adding it back.

    ```
    apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure
    ```

> 2. If you're not currently running Airflow locally, open your Astro project and run `astro dev start`. Otherwise, run `astro dev restart`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Run `astro dev start` to start your project, or run `astro dev restart` to restart your project and install the provider package.
```

Author: I think we should keep it consistent across different guides. The one we set for aDF seemed perfect.

> 3. In the Airflow UI, go to **Admin** > **Connections**. Click the **+** sign to add a new connection, select the connection type as **Azure Blob Storage** and give it a name in the **Connection Id** field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the Airflow UI, go to **Admin** > **Connections**. Click **+** to add a new connection and select the connection type as **Azure Blob Storage**.
```

> 4. Paste the values copied from [Get connection details](#get-connection-details) in the connection fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Complete the following fields using the values you retrieved from [Get connection details](#get-connection-details):
```

>     - **Blob Storage Login**: `<my-storage-account>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Connection Id**: Enter a name for the connection.
    - **Blob Storage Login**: Enter your storage account name. 
```

>     - **Blog Storage Key**: `<my-shared-access-key>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Blog Storage Key**: Enter your storage account **Key**.
```

> 5. Click on **Test** connection to test and then **Save** the connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click **Test**. When the connection test succeeds, click **Save**.
```

    ![azure-connection-storage-access-key](/img/guides/connection-blob-storage-access-key.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="connection-string">

> To create a connection, follow the below steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Add the following line to your Astro project's `requirement.txt` file to install and use the package for Microsoft Azure in Airflow.:

Reviewer: Can you apply similar edits to the next few tabs based on the ones I provided earlier? Because the content is the same, my edits would basically be identical.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="azure-app-service-principal">

To create a connection, follow the below steps:

1. Add the following line to your Astro project's `requirement.txt` file to install and use the package for Microsoft Azure in Airflow:
    ```
    apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure
    ```
2. If you're not currently running Airflow locally, open your Astro project and run `astro dev start`. Otherwise, run `astro dev restart`.

3. In the Airflow UI, go to **Admin** > **Connections**. Click the **+** sign to add a new connection, select the connection type as **Azure Blob Storage** and give it a name in the **Connection Id** field.

4. Paste the values copied from [Get connection details](#get-connection-details) in the connection fields:

    - **Account Name**: `<my-storage-account-url>`
    - **Blob Storage Login**: `<my-pplication-client-ID>`
    - **Blob Storage Key**: `<my-client-secret>`
    - **Tenant Id**: `<my-tenant-id>`

6. Click on **Save** the connection.

    ![azure-connection-storage-app](/img/guides/connection-blob-storage-app.png)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## How it works

> Airflow uses [Azure SDK for Python](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python) to connect to Azure services via [WasbHook](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/stable/_api/airflow/providers/microsoft/azure/hooks/wasb/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airflow uses [Azure SDK for Python](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python) to connect to Azure services using the [WasbHook](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/stable/_api/airflow/providers/microsoft/azure/hooks/wasb/index.html).
```

## See also

> - [Apache Airflow Microsoft Azure OSS Docs](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/stable/connections/wasb.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Apache Airflow Microsoft Azure provider package documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow-providers-microsoft-azure/stable/connections/wasb.html).
```

> - Azure blob storage [modules](https://registry.astronomer.io/modules?query=wasb) and [example DAGs](https://registry.astronomer.io/dags/covid_to_azure_blob/versions/1.2.0) in Astronomer Registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Azure blob storage [modules](https://registry.astronomer.io/modules?query=wasb) and [example DAGs](https://registry.astronomer.io/dags/covid_to_azure_blob/versions/1.2.0) in the Astronomer Registry.
```

- [Import and export Airflow connections using Astro CLI](https://docs.astronomer.io/astro/import-export-connections-variables#from-environment-variables).

> - [Create a storage account in Azure](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-overview?toc=%2Fazure%2Fstorage%2Fblobs%2Ftoc.json&bc=%2Fazure%2Fstorage%2Fblobs%2Fbreadcrumb%2Ftoc.json).
> - [Authorize access to Storage Account](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/authorize-data-access?toc=%2Fazure%2Fstorage%2Fblobs%2Ftoc.json&bc=%2Fazure%2Fstorage%2Fblobs%2Fbreadcrumb%2Ftoc.json).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
